Forward Magazine’s Forward Reviews is fantastic. This is another tool you can use. That is absolutely free for librarians.
You can get on their email list. This is one of the places that will come to you and talk to you about what's new.
And you can also get there are physical magazine,
which is, again, absolutely free for libraries.
They deal primarily with independent publishers, university presses and self publishers.
So, it's going to be things that you're not seeing in other review journals.
Speaking of reviewed journals,
are you using reviews for discoverability or for gatekeeping?
And really think about what you're using reviews to do.
Reviews are fantastic, especially for discoverability.
But if you're using them, to keep people out of your collection,
I would urge you to rethink that impulse.
Use reviews equitably.
Think about who was doing the reviewing,
who chooses what books can be reviewed,
and what books are being repeatedly reviewed, not leaving space for other items.
There are so many things being published these days,
in many different formats.
That it can seem overwhelming.
And reviews are one way to narrow the field.
It has to have a review before we'll even consider it.
Or it has to have two reviews. Independently published items have to have more reviews.
I understand the impulse.
But we have to understand that not everything is chosen equitably to be reviewed.
And when we think about it that way, not having a review can keep diversity out of your collection.
And that's the opposite of what we're trying to do.
So, I'm not saying don't use reviews,
I'm saying think carefully about how we're using reviews.
Also think about who's doing the review?
And think about who exactly are you buying for?
We place a lot of importance on reviews, professional reviews,
a lot of professional reviews are done by librarians, which is fantastic.
Are we purchasing for librarians?
Not necessarily.
So, while a review will tell us some things about the book.
We need to keep in mind who we're purchasing for.
And to that end, we can also take a look at patron reviews in places like Goodreads or vendor sites.
They are also doing reviews.
And those reviews are for other people in the general public,
who are also thinking about reading that book.
So, we don't necessarily have to give them all the same weight.
But it is a good reminder that our professional review,
well great,
isn't necessarily going to tell us whether people in our community want to read the book.
We should be using a more balanced approach when it comes to considering reviews for purchase decisions.